The National Trails System is a series of trails in the United States designated "to promote the preservation of, public access to, travel within, and enjoyment and appreciation of the open-air, outdoor areas and historic resources of the Nation". There are four types of trails: the national scenic trails, national historic trails, national recreation trails, and connecting or side trails. In response to a call by President Lyndon B. Johnson to have a cooperative program to build public trails for "the forgotten outdoorsmen of today" in urban and backcountry areas, the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation recommended a network of trails to provide recreational opportunities and evaluated several possible trails, both scenic and historic. The National Trails System Act created a program for long-distance natural trails on October 2, 1968, establishing the first two of eleven national scenic trails: the Appalachian National Scenic Trail and Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail. The first four of nineteen national historic trails were established by Congress in 1978, marking the routes of early travels across the country. Over 1,300 national recreation trails have since been administratively designated. (map pictured). (Full list...)

Recently featured: Number-one Billboard Top Latin Albums from the 1990sInternational Labour OrganizationAccolades received by Titanic
ArchiveMore featured lists
Today's featured picture
Julie d'Aubigny
Julie d'Aubigny (1673–1707), better known as Mademoiselle Maupin or La Maupin, was a 17th-century French opera singer. Her life inspired numerous fictional and semi-fictional portrayals. Théophile Gautier loosely based the title character, Madeleine de Maupin, of his novel Mademoiselle de Maupin (1835) on her.

Illustration credit: unknown; restored by Adam Cuerden

Recently featured: TurkeyCephalanthus occidentalisSaint Anne
ArchiveMore featured pictures
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements.
Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues.
Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement.
Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics.
Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia.
